One of the primary problems for Judeo-Christian
theologians is the disturbing reality that both
King David and King Solomon, the most celebrated kings
of Judaic history, cannot be found in the historical record.
How can this be?
How could the wealthy and influential empires suddenly
disappear from the archaeological record?
Historian Ralph Ellis, author of
Jesus, Last of the Pharaohs and other intriguing books,
says that the lack of evidence may simply be a
matter of looking in the wrong place.
His research into ancient texts through the science of
etymology has led him to some original conclusions.
Perhaps the most startling is that the Judaic culture
may have stemmed from the Hyksos line of Egyptian pharaohs.
(soft, fast music)
To understand the genesis of all of this incredible work
you've done, we really have to understand that it's all
from ancient times until now, is a matter of interpretation
and really, a deep understanding of etymology
is important to all of this, as you have taken it upon
yourself to learn ancient Egyptian and Hebrew to the extent,
you know a lot of the words and can do some of your own
interpretation quite easily, and it starts
putting a different spin to the story.
And speaking of spins to the story,
can you set us up with an understanding of what
the pesher technique is and then
we're going to get into the juicy stuff.
Okay, well the pesher technique is just
the interpretation of the text,
assuming effectively
that most of the texts are written as parables
and so there are deeper meanings within the text.
I think sometimes it's easy to see too much
into these texts
and so you have to be very careful about
how deeply you take it, and I think some of the books
that have been written have taken
the pesher technique rather too far.
But I do use a sort of similar technique in that I'm
retranslating, effectively,
what the texts are actually saying.
So, just for an example, in the Bible,
it talks about Abraham having 318 servants,
which might sound unusual because he
was supposed to be a shepherd, you know.
Why would a shepherd have 318 servants?
(Regina laughs)
But if you look into Josephus, and I used Josephus,
or Josephus as they tend to say in America,
if you look into his version of the same text
he clearly says that Abraham had 318 army officers.
So, a very small change but then it makes a very big change
in the understanding of that particular text.
What it means, of course, is that Abraham had
an army of about 30,000 people, so he must have
been very influential, very powerful.
He must have been a king.
But, if you're reading the most common versions
of the Bible today, you would come away thinking that
all of these great characters, throughout biblical history
in particular, are basically shepherds.
Yes.
And it's a very pastoral idyllic moral
kind of scenario.
Very much so.
That they're passing on through these writings
and in fact, what you're relaying is something much richer
because you're saying, "Why is it that some of these
"most well-known people throughout the traditions
"of Judaism, Christianity, and the Islamic faith
"all have the same stories, essentially have the same root
"to the same names, if they were shepherds?"
Yes.
And so they're powerful people of the day.
Why can't you find them as biblical characters
throughout history?
So, let's launch right in.
Let's talk about Abraham.
Yes, well there you come to one of
the nubs of the whole story.
They were called in the Bible, as we know, shepherds.
Why were they called shepherds?
Well, the reason, I believe,
is because they were the shepherd kings,
and there was a line of pharaohs within Egypt
who are known as the Hyksos, or the Hyksos,
who were known as the shepherd kings
and that is where the term shepherd comes from.
And so Abraham was not a shepherd.
He had 318 army officers.
Meaning a vast army.
A vast army of at least 30,000 people.
Underneath these officers.
So he was a shepherd king, and we know who
the shepherd kings were.
They were the Hyksos.
And they were the people who controlled Lower Egypt.
That's the northern half of Egypt.
Egypt was quite traditionally divided
between north and south quite on a number of occasions.
It wasn't always united.
And so, you had a southern pharaoh and a northern pharaoh.
And during the Hyksos period, again, we had two pharaohs
and we had this line of shepherd kings in the north
and this is where I think the story comes from.
And this a presumption that goes back a long way.
Again, if you read Josephus and his history--
Now, Josephus was around the first century A.D. and
he wrote a history of the Israelites,
and he actually said that the Israelites were the Hyksos,
the Hyksos pharaohs of Lower Egypt.
No one really took up on his assertion there.
It seems to have been forgotten somewhere.
However, if we take what he said as being true,
everything in the Bible suddenly starts to make more sense.
Right, most definitely, and could it have been
conveniently forgotten for political reasons?
I think so.
I've thought long and hard
about why this should have been done.
But I think the change happened
somewhere perhaps during the Babylonian exile.
Obviously, Israel had been destroyed.
The people had been scattered.
They were now in exile in Babylon,
and I think they were looking maybe for a scapegoat.
And there is a section in the Bible which accuses Egypt
of being the root of all evil.
And I think at that point
there was a separation made between the original
Egyptian history and what became the normal
biblical history saying it all occurred
sort of in Judea, mostly anyway.
And so there was...
They needed someone to blame, effectively,
and so they adopted this sort of victim status
in order to keep the people together
and forge this new effective religion.
And that became the Judaism that we know today.
Which essentially became what
the Old Testament was based on.
Yes, but effectively, it was a true history of something
that was completely different, and so we have to look back
through the texts and sort of reinterpret the texts,
trying to see the original Egyptian
historical evidence,
because the Bible as we see it, has somehow
become divorced totally from history.
So here we have a book that is a complete history of
these people, and yet nothing, none of these events,
none of these people, nothing within the Bible,
can be found within the historical record.
Right, which is really quite intriguing.
Which is very strange.
It's as though the Bible happened on a different planet.
But it didn't.
We know where it happened, roughly, and these people
were important, whether it was Abraham,
whether it was King David and King Solomon who
were supposed to be the most influential monarchs
in that area, in that era, and yet they can't be
found in the historical record.
And so the question is, why?
And this is where the etymology comes into play.
Indeed.
So can you start giving us a
maybe a little bit more specific idea of what
you're talking about in terms of
who these players throughout biblical history
may have been in secular history?
Yes.
Well, let's look at the United Monarchy for instance.
That's King David and King Solomon.
As I said, they were hugely influential, very wealthy.
Monarchs came from all over the region to pay them tribute.
And yet they are missing in the historical record.
They've done a lot of archaeology in Judea, in Jerusalem.
And the conclusion of Finkelstein,
who's one of the eminent archaeologists of that area,
is that Jerusalem was no more than a village
during this era, and of course he's found no evidence
for King David and King Solomon,
which is a bit of a problem,
because here we have this story about these
famous kings and they are not there.
And so you've only got two options, really.
Either, as some people maintain, it's all mythology
and this book was completely made up,
or we're looking in the wrong location.
Which is interesting because a lot of people
have become disenfranchised with their religion,
and certainly on fundamental levels have basically,
I think what you're saying,
is throwing the baby out with the bathwater,
that there's an incredibly rich story embedded
there if you know how to read it.
Yes.
There are two problems here.
The Israelites have taken back Israel, of course,
and they sent out their archaeologists into the field
and said, "Right.
"We now have the opportunity.
"Go and look for the evidence."
And they can't find it.
And so, yes, that is a big problem for Judaism.
So anyway, they cannot find these two influential monarchs
in the historical record, so the alternative, the obvious
alternative was to look elsewhere for these monarchs.
Maybe they were looking in the wrong location.
Maybe the history is there,
but they are looking in the wrong location.
Quite literally?
Quite, yes, indeed.
So they're looking in Jerusalem.
Perhaps their main city,
their capital city, was not based in Jerusalem.
Maybe it was elsewhere.
This has a lot of implications when you have
all this fighting going on over the Temple,
for example, but we'll talk about that later.
Yes, it becomes very political.
So anyway, I started looking,
having already looked at the Hyksos pharaohs of Egypt,
having already realized that it was quite possible
that the early Israelites were the Hyksos,
and a critical piece of that evidence was the Exodus.
Now, we all know the Exodus from the biblical story
and we've all been through standard education for
Christianity, maybe Sunday school, et cetera,
but never is it told to us that there was an identical
exodus out of Egypt by the Hyksos pharaohs of Eygpt.
There was a civil war, and so these kings who were known
as shepherds, who were circumcised, who had earrings,
who wore curly sidelocks of hair of course,
standard Egyptian custom,
they had this civil war with the southern Egyptians.
At the same time, there was storms,
darkness, and possibly plagues.
And they were kicked out of Egypt.
They started from Pi-Ramesses in northern Egypt and
about half a million people went on an exodus to Jerusalem.
Sounding very familiar
from my Sunday school classes.
This is not biblical history.
This is real history,
and this comes from the texts of Egypt.
It comes from Manetho and some of the other texts,
like the Destruction of Mankind
and other ancient Egyptian texts.
And so this exodus account from history
is almost identical to the biblical Exodus.
The only thing it differs in is the date, which is about
300 years before the accepted era
for the biblical Exodus.
However, we have an identical situation.
And so, it seemed likely to me that the early Israelites
were linked very strongly
with the northern Egyptian Hyksos line
and so if we want to look at later
Israelite history, then perhaps somehow that is also
related to the Egyptian line.
Let's bring in, again, some of the evidence
based on etymology.
Let's go back to Egypt.
Let's go back to the Exodus,
or Israel in the Exodus,
and Moses and his role, and who Moses was
as a matter of what you have been discovering.
You found something entirely different.
Yes.
Now, it does get a little bit complicated
because it's clear from the historical record
that there were two exoduses, not one.
And Manetho was an Egyptian historian
of about 300 B.C.
So he was rather closer to this era
than we are, and he said there were two exoduses.
There was the big Exodus, that we've just talked about
which was the Hyksos exodus out of Egypt.
And then he talks about a smaller exodus of
maimed priests and lepers, 80,000 of them.
Now, these 80,000 maimed priests and lepers had
been exiled into Middle Egypt on the east
bank of the Nile, to a stone quarry.
And I think in this we can see a history
of the founding of Amarna,
which was the new city of
Pharaoh Akhenaten, the Rebel Pharaoh.
And so his new city would have been a quarry because
they had to construct it from nothing.
Manetho then goes on to say that these people were
eventually pushed out of this area
on the east bank of the Nile,
and they went to Avaris, which is up in the Nile Delta,
which is Pi-Ramesses of course, same town.
And so within this,
I think we can see a story
about the abandonment of Amarna because we know that
Akhenaten went to Amarna and about 12 years later
his whole empire collapsed,
and we don't know what happened to him,
his royal family, Nefertiti,
Kiya, his other wife, all of the main players
are not present.
People say they died at Amarna
but there is no evidence for that.
But Manetho seems to be clearly stating
that they actually went on another exodus, a smaller exodus
up to Avaris, and then maybe beyond.
Now, the strange thing is, the brother of Akhenaten
was called Moses, Tuthmosis.
And so we seem to have the two brothers, in the Bible
they're called Aaron and Moses and in
history they were called Akhenaten and Tuthmosis.
And here I think is where we bring in the story about
Moses and his part in the Exodus.
What's happened in the Bible, of course,
is they've taken these two exodus events
and they've combined them
into one story effectively.
But I think it was two exoduses, as Manetho states,
and both of these exoduses, of course,
went up to the North,
because eventually these maimed priests
and lepers were kicked out of Avaris as well.
And what do you think the maimed priests
and lepers, 80,000 of them you said, actually were?
Well, Akhenaten, as we know,
was the Rebel Pharaoh.
So he was the pharaoh who tried to institute monotheism
within Egypt.
So he was destroying the old gods
and instituting his new god, the Aten.
And of course the biblical god is sometimes called
the Aden, so Aten, Aden, it's the same god obviously.
Now, from the Theban
priesthood's perspective,
this would have been very heretical.
And so Akhenaten would have been called the maimed priest
and a leper.
Not a real leper of course.
Meaning an outcast.
An outcast.
A theological leper, because his new sect was so different
and so confrontational, that it was destroying all
the old traditions, all the old gods.
So yes of course, he would be called the maimed priest
in the theological sense.
So this would have been a group
of religious rebels essentially.
Effectively.
Effectively led by him.
Yes, which it was, and we know that from history.
And of course, from the biblical perspective
we have the same story, because Moses
was doing exactly the same thing.
He was the monotheist.
He was in Egypt.
He was of the royal family of course.
He was known as a prince of Egypt,
and if you read Josephus,
of course, Moses was also an army commander.
He was a chief army commander within Egypt,
who led the battle against the Ethiopians.
So he was a very important character within Egyptian society
and likewise, he was connected with monotheism
and a clash with the establishment within Egypt.
So again, it's the same story.
And this, again,
going back to the root of a lot of
the explanations and the simple pastoral way.
I read a couple of verses
that you had quoted from the Bible
talking about where Jesus had said,
"This knowledge is for--
"Essentially, this knowledge is not for all.
"This knowledge that we pass among ourselves,
"the initiates, is for the few.
"The other knowledge is passed to the people,
"the lay person."
This is why Jesus always spoke in parables.
Because the church of Jesus
was based on initiation, of course.
There were many levels within his church.
And the Disciples and even within the Disciples,
there were many levels,
and so we had various initiations into this church.
The laity knew nothing
and they just had the outer layer of the parable.
Which is essentially what we have today.
Yes, but...
To a large extent in the Bible.
I'm thinking more of a sort of masonic type
initiation, something...
I was saying
the laity part of the Bible that's passed on to us
through Sunday school and sermons, by and large,
is the pastoral, simpler version of it.
However, as many books have come out talking about
the lost years of Jesus and Jesus's pilgrimage into Egypt
and having learned a lot of the ancient mysteries.
This is being well documented now, so let's pick it up
from there with Jesus.
We'll go into that part of the story
later on, but again, the whole notion of
the need to separate out the information
because of that elite knowledge.
Yes, and not only elite knowledge, of course,
and I think they did have some very interesting knowledge.
But also the true history, which they would have known,
which again, the laity did not.
And so again we have this differentiation between--
And it keeps people very simple in their union.
Very much so.
Us against them.
Yes.
It says very clearly, I can't remember the exact quote,
but there was a quote from Jesus within the Bible.
It says most clearly, "This is not a subject
"to be given to the common people.
"This is just for--"
That's the one I was referring to, exactly.
"This is just for you, the Disciples."
And even amongst the Disciples he says well,
you know, "Why can't you understand?"
(laughs)
And if you go back into Egyptology--
And again, this is sprinkled throughout the Bible, even.
If you go back into Egyptology, for example,
there was a much greater understanding of the human
condition as we relate to the cosmos,
and cartography was much better developed at that time.
All of these ancient knowledges which are just now
coming back to light, played prominently,
and then showed up in the Bible,
as I think there was something about
mating between the cows...
Mating between the cows and the--
Oh yes, from the Old Testament, the cows and the sheep.
We have this wonderful story from the Bible
and this is what I like about my research.
A lot of the Bible doesn't make any sense.
You read it, and you think, "You know, these guys..."
Mating between cows and sheep?
Yeah, these guys must be on something
to write all this, you know.
What is it all about?
But when you can look at the text from the right perspective
it actually begins to make sense.
And effectively, all this talk about cows and sheep
was all astrology.
Right, which the Egyptians were noted for.
Of course.
Now, a lot of people will say that the zodiac does not
go back that far.
You know, "It's Greek."
"It doesn't go back."
But it seems quite clear from the writings of Josephus
that it did, because he plainly states that
the loaves on the altar, the 12 loaves,
represented the 12 constellations,
that the buttons on the priest's tunic
represented the constellations, et cetera,
and the seven planets.
The menorah represented the seven planets, et cetera.
And of course he's talking about the era of Moses again
and Joseph, which in normal terms
must be around 1600, 1500 B.C.
So Josephus is saying quite clearly that the knowledge
of the zodiac goes back at least that far.
So I only bring that up
to say that this is just one example of
how the Bible and how other texts, the Torah,
the Old Testament--
Would you say the Quran, as well,
can be read, again, on these dual levels?
Very much so.
Embedded with the same characters.
A typical one is Jesus, of course.
Jesus was born as a lamb of God,
but he became a fisher of men.
Why?
Well, because under precession the Earth rose--
Precession on the equinox,
which we have covered also.
Indeed yes.
It rotates around into the different houses
of the different paths of the constellations
and at the turn of the first century, of course,
we changed from Aries into Pisces.
And so Jesus was born as a lamb, but became a fisherman.
And so again, we see this covert
reference to the zodiac all the time,
but of course most of this was destroyed and that's another
reason why it became covered up.
It wasn't just simply that this was initiation into
the church, but we also ended up with two
churches during the time of Jesus.
We had the church of Jesus and James,
but then there was a split, of course.
And Saul, or Saint Paul, went off and did his own thing.
Now, Saul had been the enemy of Jesus
and so they were very cautious about this guy.
They didn't trust him, so Saul had never really
been initiated into the full meaning
of the church of Jesus and James.
So when he went off and started his own church,
he didn't know all the secrets.
And this is where a lot of the
Christian doctrine came from, right?
Yeah, Christianity has nothing to do
with the church of Jesus and James.
It is the church of Saul.
It's the splinter group.
So we have this big confrontation between
the church of James and the church of Saul.
Now, the church of Jesus and James of course was Jewish.
It was a Jewish sect.
You had to be circumcised.
You had to follow the Mosaic law, et cetera,
all of the normal things you would find within Judaism.
It's more of a way of life, et cetera,
than a straight religion.
Saul on the other hand, went off and he
wanted to found a popularist church.
So he went off and said,
"Okay, I'm not only gonna preach to the Jews,
"but we'll preach to the Gentiles as well,
"because there's more gentiles than Jews,
"and I want to be a successful church."
So he went off and started preaching to gentiles.
And he scrapped all of Mosaic law,
and just had the Ten Commandments.
And then we had this big discussion about circumcision
of course, which you had to be circumcised,
obviously, within the church of Jesus.
And Saul went off and he started not only accepting people
who weren't circumcised, he actually said,
"Well, if circumcision means that much to the Jews,
"why don't they just cut their penis off
"and have done with it?"
And that's in Acts, oh no it's in...
Rather denigrating statement.
Galatians, yes.
And so we can see this big separation
between the original church of Jesus
and the new church of Saul.
And it was the church of Saul of course
that became dominant.
It was much more commercial.
It was more like,
perhaps some of these televangelists that you see
on American television.
He was there for the money
and he became the dominant church in that region.
And the church of Jesus and James
sunk into obscurity.
So I know since then
the texts that happen in the New Testament
base of work, essentially became
also included in the King James version.
Is that fair to say?
Is this all rooted back to the church of Saul?
Yes, all of it.
Now, he did pick out, obviously,
some areas from the church of Jesus and James, of course.
But most of what he picked out, of course,
had nothing to do with the original church.
This is why we see this big difference.
And so, within the church of Saul,
which became Christianity, of course,
we don't see any reference to the zodiac.
Astrology became banned.
Right, right.
We don't see the role of women
because Saul was the original misogynist.
And that's reflected in the Bible.
Very much so.
Mothers are whores.
Yeah, and you know, women must be seen and not heard
and all that sort of business.
Whereas we know from the few texts we do have
about the church of Jesus and James,
that Mary Magdalene of course was the senior disciple.
And hence we have this
slightly new discussion, but it is an old discussion,
about whether Mary Magdalene was in the Last Supper scene.
Right, and we're going to get into that,
the whole lineage of Jesus--
Actually, we're going to separate that out
into a separate interview,
so we'll keep people on the line a bit here, won't we?
But not intentionally.
It's just that there's so much more to cover here,
out of the Old Testament.
So, if you can continue on what you were saying,
and then also let's get into the Temple at Jerusalem.
I don't know if that's a non sequitur
and we should just jump there right now but--
What would you prefer?
Yes.
Well, yes.
Let's go back to the building of the Temple of Jerusalem.
So that's going back to the United Monarchy era
of David and King Solomon.
As we were saying before,
they can't be found in the historical records.
So where were they?
And having spoken so much about Egypt,
let's look at them
from the Egyptian perspective.
And obviously we're not gonna find those names
within the historical record,
because otherwise they would have been found already.
People would have known about them.
So what we're looking for
is a couple of attributes that are central
to the United Monarchy story.
And that is King David, who was known as...
Well, he was primarily known for the city and the star,
the City of David and the Star of David.
And these are two very, very important shibboleths
of his reign.
And so what we're looking for
is something similar within the Egyptian record.
Of course if we look in exactly the same era as King David,
we find a pharaoh from Lower Egypt,
again, the Hyksos,
who was known for the city and the star.
And his name was Pasebakhaennuit,
or Psusennes in the Greek version.
His name actually has the city glyph and the star glyph.
That was my starting point.
And that's interesting because
when you look at the Star of David
and you look at the star tetrahedron
embedded all throughout Egyptology,
it's the same star.
Yes.
Well, they had two stars in Egypt, of course.
Most of them were the pentagon star.
Most of them were five-sided stars.
The Star of David, of course, is two pyramids.
Right, the star tetrahedron,
which is in a lot of the mysticism of Egypt.
It's simply two pyramids superimposed on each other.
And that's important, because that's where
the symbology came from.
It came from Giza.
It came from the Pyramids.
But here we have a monarch
who has the same attributes as King David.
And so, I just started idly looking
at this monarch and seeing if anything else compares,
because obviously if...
What I'm saying here,
it's a big jump of course,
is that King David was this pharaoh called Psusennes.
But if he was, then everything else
around him within the United Monarchy,
his ancestors, his descendants, his courtiers,
everything should be the same.
Now, you might think that is impossible,
that everything from the court of King David
could be the same as the court of this particular pharaoh.
But it's not.
It's exactly the same.
So he has the same ancestors.
He has the same descendants.
He has the same daughter.
The same army commander.
The same architect.
So, let's have a look at a few of those.
One of the ancestors of King David
of course was Salmon
and the direct ancestor of Psusennes was called Siamun.
Siamun, Salmon.
His daughter, the daughter of King David,
was called Maakhah Tamar.
And if we look into the historical record,
the daughter of this particular pharaoh
was called Maakhare Mu-Tamhat.
Maakhah Tamar, Maakhare Mu-Tamhat.
His army commander, for King David,
was called Joab.
And the army commander of this particular pharaoh
was called Un-joab-endjed, Joab.
And so we see all these links coming together,
where everything fits together.
So it's not just a shot in the dark,
that, you know, this monarch is around at the same time
as King David, and perhaps he could be associated
with stars and cities.
It's his entire court,
seems to be identical to the court of King David.
And so I made this radical proposal
that he was King David.
And so many things began to fit together.
It was untrue.
One of the central points was,
where was his court located?
So where was his capital city?
Was it in Jerusalem?
Because these pharaohs actually did start,
later on in the next reign,
to control all of Judea as well.
So, they were influential in Judea
as well as Lower Egypt.
So, where was the capital city?
Well it just so happens that the original names
for Jerusalem were Zion
and Jebus.
Those were the original names of Jerusalem
and it's from there, of course,
that we get the Zionists of course, from Zion.
As it happens, the city of Tanis in Egypt was called Zoan.
Zoan, Zion.
And that's near Port Said.
Yes, it's up in the northeast delta.
And it was also called Jebet.
Jebet, Jebus.
So, even the city has the same names
as are used for Jerusalem.
And so this proposal becomes even more radical,
because what I'm saying here
is that not only was this monarch
actually a Lower Egyptian Monarch,
but the capital city was located
in the Nile Delta at Tanis.
And so it's a big radical change
to the story,
but actually, in some senses it's not.
All I'm saying is, it wasn't there.
It was here.
All we're doing is changing the location
and suddenly, everything within the Bible
at that point in time, the United Monarchy,
starts to make sense.
Right, because you also talk
about references where in the Bible,
in the Torah also, where it specifically refers
to going in a particular direction
to get supplies for example.
And those directions would line up
with coming from Zoan, as you say,
Tanis as you say, rather than Jerusalem
in some cases.
Yes, they had lots of mentions
of going down into Egypt, which would seem
to separate the biblical story from Egypt.
Right, or going south.
But within the ancient texts, the Egyptian texts,
they had the same terminology,
and even within Josephus they have the same terminology.
And they go from the Nile Delta
down into Egypt.
So Egypt obviously in that era
was really a reference to Upper Egypt, to Thebes.
It didn't really refer to the entire area
that we would know as Egypt today.
And so, yes, these stories about
people going down into Egypt still make sense,
even if you locate Jerusalem in Tanis.
In Tanis.
So, if we can get to this for a second,
what is in Jerusalem, supposedly,
under the Temple Mount, then?
Well, there's nothing.
This is the problem.
They can't find anything that can show
that the Temple of Solomon was actually there.
And so we have a big gap in the archaeology.
They can't find David and Solomon's palace.
They can't find his temple.
They can't find any major city within Jerusalem
at that time.
This is the Jerusalem, obviously, in Israel.
Because this was, as you say, a village.
It wasn't a thriving metropolis.
It was only a village in that era.
But of course, if you come back into Tanis,
of course, this was a major metropolis.
And it had, not just one temple, it had several temples
and the most marvelous architecture,
huge great pillars,
granite pillars made in the shape of
palm trees.
Beautifully carved, fantastic pieces of workmanship.
And of course, the temple there has the same name
as the temple in Jerusalem.
Again, you know, everything just starts--
You just have to read the book
and everything fits together.
It's amazing.
The Temple of Jerusalem was known
as the Hikal Yahweh, the temple of Yahweh.
And the temple in Tanis was known
as the Hetka Ptah, the temple of Ptar.
Hikal, Hetka.
It has the same prefix.
And so, yes, I think
we will find eventually that the Temple of Jerusalem
was actually in Tanis.
It was one of the Tanis temples,
either the main temple, or perhaps
the new, smaller temple which was built on the back.
So, needless to say,
this has very large implications
as to what's going on in modern times
in the city of Jerusalem.
It does.
It means the Zionists are looking in the wrong place
for the homeland, you know.
The original homeland was Zoan, not Zion.
It was Tanis, the Nile Delta,
because the Israelites were the Lower Egyptians,
the Hyksos Egyptians from Lower Egypt.
And that was their original homeland.
So yes, it's very contentious, but it makes sense
and it makes much more sense than throwing out the Bible
and saying it's just mythology.
If you think about it, here we've got
the entire history of this region,
whether it be Egypt or Israel,
that goes back at least sort of 2,000 B.C.
Now, if someone today was rummaging around
near the Dead Sea and they entered a cave
and found this pot with this book in it,
which was called the Bible,
they would be going through every single last letter
and sentence in this book trying to find real history.
But because the Bible has religious baggage
attached to it, the Egyptologists,
and even the archaeologists from Israel,
won't really touch it.
It's almost taboo for them because it's religious.
But it's not.
It's a historical text
and it's a historical text that has come
straight out of ancient history.
Now, they try to deflect this by saying,
"Oh, you know, these were just poor shepherds
"and therefore it's a big oral tradition
"and therefore a lot of the history will be garbled
"with Chinese whisper syndromes
"and all the rest of this business."
But no, it wasn't.
These were pharaohs.
They would have had scribes.
It would not have been an oral history.
This was a written history that came from Abraham,
who I say was Pharaoh Mamayebra.
And from Jacob, who I say was Pharaoh Jacob.
And that's something they don't tell you about,
that there was a pharaoh from northern Egypt
who was called Jacob, Jacoba.
Jacoba.
So, in this new guise,
it's no longer an oral history
of a few Bedouin floating around
with half a dozen starving sheep.
We now have the Bible as being the daybook,
within Egypt, within the royal court--
And they probably still do the same now, I don't know.
But the royal court in Egypt used to keep a daybook,
a diary, and this was a diary of the royal court.
The trivia, the main events,
everything that was going on within the royal court,
was recorded in the daybook.
So essentially, what I'm saying is the Bible
is the daybook of the Hyksos pharaohs
of Lower Egypt.
Which gives it a whole other level
of importance.
Absolutely,
and it also means that it is not an oral history.
It was a written history.
They would have had the scribes.
And so it could well be an exact history
of what happened in that era.
So instead of being mythology, now we're saying
it is 100% historical fact
if you can understand what it was saying.
So, these things we've been talking about before,
when we're talking about sheep and bulls,
we're actually talking about Apis bull worship
and sheep, Aries worship.
The cult, hence the shepherd kings of course,
this is why they were called the shepherd kings,
because Aries was the dominant constellation at that time.
That's why they were called the shepherd kings.
Well, even the word Hyksos itself
has two meanings.
It does, yes.
A lot of people will say, "It doesn't mean shepherd king."
But clearly, Josephus and Manetho said,
"It does mean shepherd king."
And the giveaway there is that it's spelt
with the shepherd's crook,
and so we can see it has a connection with shepherds.
In actual fact, the word is Hykau-Khasut
which tends to mean--
Well, Egyptologists will say
that it means the kings of the foreign lands,
but it doesn't.
The literal translation is Hykau-Khasut,
the kings of the mountains.
But I've retranslated that,
because that really doesn't make much sense.
That's why they say it's foreign,
because there's no mountains in Egypts,
and therefore anything to do with mountains
has to be foreign.
No, because this particular glyph is used
in many things that are purely Egyptian,
so it doesn't mean foreign.
So, what does khasut mean?
What's this mountains?
And of course, the big sacred mountains of Egypt
are going about, back again, to King Solomon
and the Star of David.
The sacred mountains of Egypt were the pyramids.
And so they were the Hykau-Khasut.
They were the kings of the pyramids, the kings of Giza,
the people who ruled over the most sacred monument
within Egypt.
The Giza pyramids of course were not tombs.
We're not talking about tombs here.
The pyramids, the ancient pyramids,
the megalithic pyramids have nothing to do with being tombs.
They were cathedrals, perhaps.
Some say observatories.
They had a huge great observatory
on top of the Great Pyramid, so yes.
Egyptian religion had a great deal--
In fact, its fundamental element was astronomy.
And so, you would need an observatory.
Very sophisticated mathematical formulas,
very exact alignments.
As we know, the Pyramids are all based
on mathematical formulae.
They are representations of the Belt of Orion
and things of that nature.
So, yes, they were observatories.
They were the sacred mountains.
And so the kings of the mountains,
the Hykau-Khasut, the Hyksos,
were the kings of the pyramids.
These were the people who looked after
the sacred mountains of Egypt.
And while we're talking about this subject,
we might as well come straight on
to the sacred mountain of the Israelites, of course,
because there we have another conundrum.
We have these Israelites wandering around
the Sinai Peninsula
and having a sacred mountain, which was some craggy rock,
in the middle of the Sinai Peninsula.
Boulderdash, rubbish, nonsense.
It doesn't make any sense.
The Israelites were the Hyksos Egyptians
of Lower Egypt,
and so their sacred mountain
was the Great Pyramid of Giza.
And so Mount Sinai is the Great Pyramid.
And okay, again, it's a huge jump...
I don't know why, but I'm getting chills
as you're saying this.
But suddenly it starts to make sense.
Here were the Israelites, sitting in Egypt,
'cause we know the Israelites went to Egypt,
even as the Bible says,
with Joseph going down into Egypt
and Moses being in Egypt.
So, they were in Egypt for anything between
200 and 400 years,
and yet nowhere in the Bible
does it mention the Pyramids of Giza.
These were the most magnificent monuments
in ancient times.
In an era when most people lived in mud huts,
you've got this monument that's 150 meters high.
And these people live in Egypt
for at least 200 or 400 years
and never mention the Pyramids?
It's just not possible, is it?
They did mention the Pyramids,
but they called them Mount Sinai and Mount Horeb.
And if you look at the descriptions of Mount Sinai,
especially if you include the descriptions from Josephus,
all of those descriptions match
the Great Pyramid of Giza.
They say it was the highest mountain.
Yes, it was.
The Great Pyramid is the highest.
It was sharp, difficult to climb.
Yes, it was.
It was the biggest mountain, as we've said,
but it was also small enough that you could cordon it off,
because you weren't allowed to touch the mountain.
So, you could actually put a cordon around the bottom
and stop people touching it.
So, it had to be actually quite small.
It had a cave inside it.
Now, a lot of people will say that Moses
went to the top of Mount Sinai.
He didn't.
He went inside Mount Sinai,
and the Quran is quite emphatic about this.
The initiates went down inside of the mountain,
holding on a rope, so there was a cave inside it,
just like there is in the Great Pyramid.
And, perhaps most convincingly of all,
at the base of the pyramid...
Correction, at the base of Mount Sinai,
was a pavement,
a basalt pavement
that looked like the night sky, polished, gleaming,
like the night sky.
So, where would you find that
in the Sinai Peninsula?
Well, you can't.
But of course, on the eastern face
of the Great Pyramid, we have the great basalt pavement.
And originally, that would have been a huge
black basalt pavement
which would have been polished
and shone like the night sky.
And so, yeah, Mount Sinai
is the Great Pyramid of Giza.
You know...
Are you going to continue on that statement?
No, that's fine.
I was going to say,
I think we're running up on our time limit,
but that is so intriguing,
that I would like to say at this point,
to have any of us that are intrigued with this,
to take a look at your books.
They're really pretty incredible works
and I would love to be able to
just secret away for about two weeks with them
and read every one of them and I'll do the best I can.
If I can say so myself, whether you agree
with what I've written or whether you don't,
the books are 100% original.
So you won't find reprocessed information
from other people's books.
These are new thoughts, new ways of looking
at these problems.
And there's an awful lot of information in those books.
They are worth reading and then reading again,
because every page has new facts.
There's no padding.
There's no extras.
It's all new information.
I see this.
Well, to say they're thought-provoking
is an understatement. (laughs)
So, I think I can only recommend that--
I've barely gotten into them, myself.
I'm very intrigued with what you're saying.
And again, in the pursuit of knowledge,
thank you for your offerings,
and we're going to continue this conversation
for part two, on the life of Jesus.
Thank you.
(soft, fast music)
Coming up soon, we'll be talking with Ralph
about the life of Jesus.
To say it's thought-provoking would be an understatement.
If you're interested in alternative views
of biblical history, you will also enjoy
our interview with Victoria S.
Until next time, thanks for watching.